.\" 
.TH drakbackup.conf 5 "December 2005" Mandriva "System Utilities"
.SH NAME 
drakbackup.conf

.SH DESCRIPTION 
Drakbackup uses a number of configuration file options to store the user's preferences as to what/where/when data is backed up. Normally these options are set from withing the GUI, but it is also possible to manually edit the file. This manpage attempts to explain the recognized options and what they are used for.

The default configuration file is located in:

   Root Mode: /etc/drakxtools/drakbackup/drakbackup.conf
   User Mode: ~/.drakbackup/drakbackup.conf

.B "Option definitions"
(all options are either =1, or have some text/numeric value or list of values):
 
.B 
 SYS_FILES		
   Comma separated list of system directories to backup. 
.B 
 HOME_FILES
   Comma separated list of user home directories to backup. 
.B 
 OTHER_FILES
   Comma separated list of other files to backup.
.B 
 PATH_TO_SAVE
   Default Hard Drive path to create backup files in.
     Root Mode: default is /var/lib/drakbackup
     User Mode: default is ~/.drakbackup/backups
.B 
 NO_SYS_FILES
   Don't backup system files (default for non\-root).
.B 
 NO_USER_FILES
   Don't backup user files. 
.B 
 BACKUPIGNORE
   Honor .backupignore files in backup directories.
.B
 ARCHIVER
   Choice of 'tar' or 'star'. Star provides support for ACLs (Access Control Lists).
.B 
 OPTION_COMP
   Compression option (tar.gz, tar.bz2, tar \- tar.gz is default).
.B 
 NO_BROWSER_CACHE
   Skip web browser cache.
.B 
 CDRW
   Backup media is re\-writable CD.
.B 
 DVDR
   Backup media is recordable DVD.
.B 
 DVDRW
   Backup media is recordable DVD+RW.
.B 
 DVDRAM
   Backup media is DVDRAM (not fully supported yet).
.B 
 NET_PROTO
   Network protocol to use for remote backups: (ftp, rsync, ssh)
.B 
 HOST_NAME
   Remote backup host.
.B 
 HOST_PATH
   Backup storage path or module on remote host.
.B 
 REMEMBER_PASS
   Remember password on remote host in config file.
.B 
 USER_KEYS
   Ssh keys are already setup for communicating with remote host.
.B 
 DRAK_KEYS
   Use special drakbackup generated host keys.
      (requires perl\-Expect)
.B 
 USE_EXPECT
   Use expect to do the whole scp transfer, without keys.
      (requires perl\-Expect)
.B 
 LOGIN
   Remote host login name.
.B 
 PASSWD
   Password on remote host (if REMEMBER_PASS is enabled).
.B 
 DAEMON_MEDIA
   Daemon mode backup via given media.
      (hd, cd, tape, ftp, rsync, ssh, or webdav)
.B 
 HD_QUOTA
   Use quota to limit hard drive space used for backups.
      (not supported yet)
.B 
 USE_HD
   Use Hard Drive for backups.
      (currently all modes use HD also for temporary storage)
.B 
 MAX_SPACE
   Maximum Hard Drive Space(MB) to consume for backups. 
.B
 DEL_OLD
   Delete backups older than the given number of days on a new backup run.
.B 
 USE_CD
   Use CD for backups.
.B 
 USE_NET
   Use network for backups (driven by NET_PROTO).
.B 
 USE_TAPE
   Use tape for backup.
.B 
 DEL_HD_FILES
   Delete local hard drive tar files after backup to other media.
.B 
 TAPE_NOREWIND
   Use non\-rewinding tape device.
.B 
 CD_TIME	
   Length of CD media (not currently utilized).
.B 
 DAEMON_TIME_SPACE
   Interval between daemon backup runs (hourly, daily, weekly, custom).
.B 
 CD_WITH_INSTALL_BOOT
   Build a bootable restore CD (currently not utilized).
.B 
 CD_DEVICE
   Cdrecord style CD device name (ie: 1,3,0, or ATAPI:/dev/hdc).
.B
 FROM_MAIL
   The return address that will be used for backup mail messages.
.B 
 USER_MAIL
   User to send backup results to via email. (Can be a comma seperated list of addresses).
.B
 SMTP_SERVER
   Mail server to use for sending mail.
.B 
 SEND_MAIL
   Do send backup results via email.
.B 
 TAPE_DEVICE
   Device to use for tape backup (ie: /dev/st0).
.B 
 MEDIA_ERASE
   Erase media before new backup (applies to tape, CD).
.B 
 MEDIA_EJECT
   Eject media after backup completes.
.B 
 MULTI_SESSION
   Allow muliple sessions to be written to CD media.
.B 
 SYS_INCREMENTAL_BACKUPS
   Do incremental or differential backups of system files.
.B 
 USER_INCREMENTAL_BACKUPS
   Do incremental or differential backups of user files.
.B 
 OTHER_INCREMENTAL_BACKUPS
   Do incremental or differential backups if other files.
.B 
 SYS_DIFFERENTIAL_BACKUPS
   Do differential backups of system files.
.B 
 USER_DIFFERENTIAL_BACKUPS
   Do differential backups of user files.
.B 
 OTHER_DIFFERENTIAL_BACKUPS
   Do differential backups if other files.
.B 
 NO_CRITICAL_SYS
   Do not backup critical system files: (passwd, fstab, group, mtab)
.B 
 CRITICAL_SYS
   Do backup above system files.
.B
 VIEW_RESTORE_LOG
   Enables display of the restore process log after a restore operation.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR drakbackup (5),
.BR /usr/share/doc/mandrake/en/Drakxtools-Guide.html/drakbackup.html

.SH AUTHOR
Stew Benedict <sbenedict@mandriva.com>

